Hello everyone and welcome to this lesson on building a blog Web site with Gatsby.
My name is you war and I'm one of the instructors alongside Andre.
That teaches the react course from zero to mastery now in this lesson.
I am going to talk about Gatsby and how we can leverage Gatsby in order to build a blog Web site.
Now before we continue I do want to note that this lesson assumes that you know the basics of react
and graft.
Well we also make the assumption that you understand some of the caveats behind some of the libraries
in the react ecosystem such as react ruder if you are unfamiliar with this.
We do teach us in the course otherwise you may have to become more familiar with these concepts before
proceeding with this lesson.
You can definitely watch this lesson still but you might not be able to understand all of the code that
will end up writing inside of this section.
Now if that is not a problem for you then let's take a deep dive into what Gatsby is in the first place.
So as I mentioned Gatsby is a framework that is written in react.
It's a framework that has already combined together some of the best react ecosystem libraries into
one bundle and as an opinionated way about how you should use it in order to build a static Web site
in order for us to actually understand when we should use something like Gatsby we have to understand
some of the competing technologies that you've definitely at least used or heard about so let's take
a look at this image let us go over one high level concept in react so we know that React is a front
end based UI rendering library we write react code which is a combination of JavaScript and J.S. X in
order for us to compile that code that we've written and react down into JSC SS an HMO using a loader
like web pack as well as a trans pilot like babble.
Now those files are the files that any web page that our browser loads consumes in order to build such
a web page.
So when we build our Web sites and react we might be writing real code.
But there is some compile step along the way that builds them into javascript CSX and HCM all files
that our browser is able to consume.
Now keeping this in mind let's take a breakdown of three technologies that we see in the react ecosystem
that try and solve the problem of how you develop react applications.
Now those are Gatsby create react app and next J us.
Now you definitely heard of create react app and you've definitely used it if you've taken this course
create react app is a very quick way for you to start up a react application and it leverage is what
is called client side rendering.
Now what client side rendering means is that leverage is the browser in order to build out the HCM AML
that gets served whenever a user navigates to any page on your react application.
So if you were to see this browser here when the user navigates to the home route and then loads up
the home component what happens is that the react code that we've written is built and passed to that
user's browser engine.
Now that engine will end up being the one that actually generates the HCM all required for that home
page and then loads it up onto the browser.
The same thing happens whenever they navigate to any other route such as collections.
But the main idea here is that the browser engine is the thing that is generating the HCM out pages
that the browser needs to load.
Related to our ReACT application everything is rendered on the client side.
So on the browser now create wracked app is a great tool when you want to build a really dynamic web
site in react but you don't have a lot of static images that come by default with the actual application
or a lot of really deeply nested and really complex logic that ends up building your pages.
Now when you do have a Web site that is performing slowly and can exceed the amount of power that our
browser engine has then you want to use something like Next J.S..
Now if you've never heard of Next j s it is a framework that allows you to write react and leverage
server side rendering server side rendering is almost the exact same conceptually as client side rendering
except instead of letting the client or the browsers engine be the actual thing that ends up compiling
and generating the HD all code for our browser route.
So whenever our users navigate to any of our pages we let the back end server build and generate the
HDD him all files that the user needs in order to view the home route the collections route or any route
for that matter.
So whenever the user navigates to a another route for example like our home then this will communicate
to our back end server that they need the HD email related to home so the server will start to generate
using our ReACT code.
The actual A.T.M. required and this is way more robust because our back and server is more powerful
and it's capable of generating it really quickly compared to our browser.
So you want to use next just when you need to build a really robust and large Web site that might end
up having really complex logic to build out your views.
Now the main thing here to remember though is that next J.
S and create react app are both dynamically generated meaning that we directly generate the HDD CML
whenever the browser navigates to different routes.
So this is all live generated whereas something like Gatsby is what's called a static generated Web
site.
So what this means is that all of the code that builds to the HCM CML pages that end up comprising our
application is all done at the build step.
So similar to when we run builds with create react app when we push our Gatsby code up to a server or
up to a hosting platform of some kind.
They will run the build script which will automatically generate all of the static HCM Mel that our
browsers end up using in order to display the views which means that none of this code is generated
dynamically.
It's all generated way ahead of time when you push your code up onto your server.
So this is the main difference with Gatsby so it's really good when you want to build static web sites
that generally don't need to dynamically change the views that often by doing so.
This is actually exactly what we need for a blog Web site where much of the actual content is already
predetermined it's already written.
So all we want to do is just display a bunch of blog posts and navigate between them and Gatsby is the
perfect solution for that.
So in the next lesson I'm going to teach you how we can get started with Gatsby so I'll see you in the
next lesson.